---
layout: post
date: 2024-06-15 18:00:00-0400
inline: false
related_posts: false
title: Thrilled to have participated in ACDL 2024! I was exited to explore the future of AI with brilliant minds.
---

Thrilled to have participated in ACDL 2024! I was exited to explore the future of AI with brilliant minds.

---

I had the incredible opportunity to participate in ACDL 2024, a prestigious Summer School held in Riva del Sole Resort & SPA in Castiglione Della Pescaia (Tuscany - Italy). 
This event was a remarkable journey into the forefront of Artificial Intelligence, featuring presentations that showcased the latest advancements in the field. 
It was an honor to engage with experts from renowned institutions such as DeepMind, Microsoft, Fraunhofer IAIS, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, The Alan Turing Institute, Harvard University, Georgia Institute of Technology and Texas A&M University. 
The discussions we had about the future of AI were both enlightening and inspiring.

One of the highlights was the presentation by Nora Kassner on Knowledge & Reasoning with Large Language Models. Her insights provided me with fresh ideas for my research and underscored the significance of these topics in advancing AI.

Ramin Hasani's talk on Liquid Neural Networks was absolutely thrilling. He presented an innovative perspective on this technology, convincing me of its potential relevance and impact in the coming years.

Beyond the presentations, the networking opportunities at ACDL 2024 were invaluable. Engaging with fellow attendees and exchanging ideas about the future of AI was a truly enriching experience.

I want to extend my thanks to USI Università della Svizzera italiana and Professor Paolo Tonella for granting me the chance to be part of this incredible event. A special shoutout to my colleagues Masoud Jamshidiyan Tehrani and Shifat Bhuiyan for joining me on this journey.